# Understanding Streams

This chapter helps you to transfer your mindset from synchronous into a asynchronous one in coding.

## Synchronous vs. asynchronous computing

Synchronous excution occurs when each block of code must wait for the previous block to complete before runing.

Javascript is a single-threaded language in nature, which means a long-runing task will block the the tasks behind it.

### Avaible Solutions

- Non-blocking code with callback functions
  - concepts
    - runtime system(caller)
    - inversion of control
  - shortcomings
    - callback hell
    - unmaintainable and hard to reason about
- Event emiters
  - Nodejs EventEmitter
- Promise
  - What solution to do next?
  - shortcomings
    - no hooks for cancelling
    - the problem of readability

Shortcomings of asynchronous paradigm:

- Where synchronous programs allow us to reason about directly the state of the applicaito, asynchornous code forces us to reason about its future state.

- State can be understood simpy as a snapshot of all the informations stored into variables at any point in time.

### The Reactive Extentions for Javascript

Reactive programing paradign treats any ubiquitous source of events in the exact same manner.

RxJS drives from being built on top of the pillars of functional and ractive programming, as well as a few popular design patterns, including observer and iterator.

### Thinking in Streams: data flows and propagation

**Streams* in RP word, any data source taht can be consumed.

Notions:

- Streams are containers or wrappers of data very similar to arrays;
- It's common to use $ suffix to qualify variables taht point to streams;
- Reactive programming is oriented around data flows and propagation;

### RxJS Project

[RxJS](https://rxjs.dev/)'s slogan is `an API for asynchronous programming with
observable streams`.
