# about REST

 It is an architectural style for **distributed hypermedia systems**.

## Guiding Principles of REST

- Client-server

This essentially means that client application and server application MUST be able to evolve separately without any dependency on each other. (Decoupling with each other)

- Stateless

  **Session state is therefore kept entirely on the client.**

  If client application needs to be a stateful, all the necessary information - including authentication and authentication details- should be contained in the request.

  ```javascript
  {
    header: {
      auth: 'auth-value'
    }
  }
  ```

- Cacheable

  Being cacheable or not needs to be explicitly.

- Uniform interface

 A resource in the system should have only one logical URI, and that should provide a way to fetch related or additional data.

 A resource should not be too large and contain each and everything in its representation. Whenever relevant, a resource should contain links (HATEOAS) pointing to relative URIs to fetch related information.

- Layered system

  REST allows you to use a layered system architecture; for example, you deploy APIs on server A and store data on server b and authenticate requests in server C.

## my HTTP convention for restful

- POST relates to creating resources
- GET relates to getting resources
- PUT relates to updating resources
- DELETE relates to depleting resources

## REST Resource Naming Guide and Best Practices

A **can be a singleton or a collection**.

```javascript
  '/api/customers'
  '/api/customer/{customerId}'
```

A resource may contain sub-collection resources also.

```javascript
  '/api/customers'
  '/customers/{customerId}/accounts'
  '/customers/{customerId}/accounts/{accountId}'
```

### REST Resource Naming Best Practices

- **Use nouns to represent resources**

For more clarity, let's devide **resouce archetypes** into four categories

  1. document
  A document resource is a singular concept that is akin to an object instance or database record.

  2. collections

  3. store

  4. controller

  A controller resource models a procedural concept. Controller resources are like executable functions, with parameters and return values; inputs and outputs.

  Use “verb” to denote controller archetype.

  ```js
  http://api.example.com/cart-management/users/{id}/cart/checkout
  http://api.example.com/song-management/users/{id}/playlist/play
  ```

- Consistency is the Key

  - Do not use trailing forward slash (/) in URIs
  - Use hyphens (-) to improve the readability of URIs

- Use query component to filter URI collection

```js
http://api.example.com/device-management/managed-devices
http://api.example.com/device-management/managed-devices?region=USA
http://api.example.com/device-management/managed-devices?region=USA&brand=XYZ
http://api.example.com/device-management/managed-devices?region=USA&brand=XYZ&sort=installation-date
```